This is Sd for POSIX.1/X11 systems.  Time-stamp: <92/11/22 21:56:06 gildea>

ABOUT SD:

Sd is a square dance caller's helper.  The program assists in writing
material for western square dancing by doing the checker pushing.  You
tell the program what call you want to call next, and it computes the
resulting setup and shows it to you.

See the file sd_doc.txinfo for some user documentation.  The file database.doc
gives internal information on the database format, useful only to people
editing the calls database.

See the file Relnotes for information about what is new in this release.

INSTALLATION:

To compile and link Sd, you need an ANSI C compiler (gcc qualifies)
and the Athena Widgets from X11 Release 4 or 5.

mkcalls must be run once to compile sd_calls.txt, the calls database,
into sd_calls.dat, the binary file used by Sd.

Type "make" to build the two programs, sd and mkcalls, and the
database, sd_calls.dat.


BUILD DETAILS:

If your X system was compiled with an ANSI C compiler,
you can run "xmkmf", which will use the Imakefile and your local X
configuration information to generate a Makefile that should work.
The sample Makefile will be moved to Makefile.bak.  Do not run xmkmf
twice or you will lose the sample Makefile entirely!

If your X system was NOT compiled with an ANSI C compiler, you may
have to edit Makefile by hand to customize it for your system.
If you are using a system that can do dynamic linking (e.g., SunOS 4
or OSF/1), taking advantage of this will make your sd executable much
smaller.  Make sure the FLAGS variable in Makefile says "-O", not "-g".

This release has been tested with the following configurations:
   SunOS 4.1.3, gcc 2.2, X11 Release 5 with public patches 1-19,
      the twm window manager, on both Sun3 and a Sun4 (Sparc)
   Domain/OS 10.4, C compiler 6.9, Dialog 2.0, on Apollo M68K
   OSF/1.0.A, C compiler 1.0, X11 Release 4, on HP series 700
   HP-UX 8.07, C compiler 8.71, X11 Release 4, on HP series 700
   HP-UX 9.0, C compiler 9.15, X11 Release 5, on HP series 700


DOCUMENTATION:

The file sd_doc.txinfo is in Texinfo format.  You can run it through TeX
to produce a printed manual, or you can format it for use with
Info, a hypertext documentation reader.

Support for Texinfo-style documentation is distributed as part of
Emacs and as stand-alone package, both available via anonymous ftp
from prep.ai.mit.edu and other GNU software archives.

Both the Emacs and Texinfo distributions contain texinfo.tex, the
macros required to print the document with TeX.  In Emacs, use M-x
texinfo-format-buffer to convert to Info, and use M-x info to read the
document.  In the Texinfo package, "makeinfo" converts to Info, and
"info" is the reader; both are C programs.

In future releases we may also distribute pre-formatted versions of
the documentation.


USING SD:

sd level [ Xt options ... ] [ -abridge filename ]


Where level is one of m, p, a1, a2, c1, c2, c3a, c3, c3x, c4a, or c4.
Xt options include all the standard flags that X programs take.

If the -abridge option is given, it will read in a file created by
-write_list (see below) and strike all the calls contained therein
off the menus.  This is useful for writing material for a workshop group
that knows part of some level.

At the completion of each sequence, Sd appends the sequence to the
file "sequence.level", where "level" is the level you specified,
uppercased.

sd level -write_list filename
	write out the call list for the
        indicated level INSTEAD OF running the program.

sd level -write_full_list filename
	write out the call list for the
        indicated level and all lower levels INSTEAD OF running the program.


USAGE PROBLEMS:

The font for the text output window must be fixed-width so the
formation pictures are legible.  If you do not get this by default,
set this resource:
Sd*text*font: -misc-fixed-medium-r-normal--13-*-*-*-c-70-iso8859-1

CUSTOMIZATION:

The file Sd.ad is a sample user resource file for the program.  It
contains values for a number of parameters, including most of the
text on the screen which is not fetched from the calls database.
Install Sd.ad as $HOME/Sd to use these resources.

People who have many user resource files for different applications
may wish to store them in a directory other than their home directory.
To do so, set the environment variable XAPPLRESDIR to the directory
where your resource files are.  For example, one of the authors uses
the subdirectory app-resources, and his .cshrc contains this line:

setenv XAPPLRESDIR ~/app-resources

To use a different value for any of these parameters, either edit the
resource file or load the changed value into your X server's resource
database.  To modify the server resource database, put a modified
version of the appropriate line in the .Xresources file in your home
directory (assuming you run "xrdb .Xresources" from .xsession or
whatever your X startup file is called).  You will have to re-run xrdb
after editing your .Xresources file.  You should add "Sd" to the front
of any lines you move to your .Xresources file.

All values in the distributed Sd.ad file except the colors are the
defaults and are in the file for illustration only.  You can remove
them if you wish your installed user resource file to contain only the
resources you change.

To have mouse button 3 invoke the Undo operation, as one of the
authors does, set these resources:

Sd*frame*Label*Translations: #override <Btn3Down>: undo()
Sd*frame*List*Translations: #override <Btn3Down>: undo()

VERSIONS:

The version is a string consisting of parts separated by colons, each
of which is a string consisting of parts separated by dots.

The authors distribute versions of the form "major.minor".  For
example, 25.6 has major version number 25 and minor version 6.
Minor versions are compatible with each other.  They have the same
user interface and read the same database format.  No new features
are introduced in new minor versions.

If you customize any part of Sd for your own use, or fix bugs, please
assign the result a new version by appending to the current version.
For example, you might create version "25.6.joe1".  The version string
is defined in sdmain.c.  Do not increment the major or minor version;
that is reserved to the developers.

GETTING SD:

The mailing list sd@mc.lcs.mit.edu is for discussion of Sd and
announcements of new versions.  Send to sd-request@mc.lcs.mit.edu
to be added.

Sd is available for anonymous FTP in the file contrib/c4/sd/sd-nn.tar.Z
(where "nn" changes with the version) on export.lcs.mit.edu.

Please send bug reports and other comments on Sd to the authors at the
addresses given below.  Be sure to include the version number.


William Ackerman
wba@apollo.hp.com

Stephen Gildea
gildea@expo.lcs.mit.edu
